#summary Installation of UrukDroid 0.7+ with EasyInstall method.

= Introduction =

Installation of UrukDroid 0.7+ with EasyInstall method.


= Details =

http://forum.xda-developers.com/picture.php?albumid=2694&pictureid=11054

This is instruction how to install new Android distribution based on Linux, Android and Archos stock os, using SDE from Archos.

== Features: ==
 * Easy install method for external (SDcard) and Internal storage
 * EXT4 ([http://forum.xda-developers.com/showpost.php?p=10239762&postcount=2 much faster than ext3], can store files >4GB comparing to FAT32)
 * Full read/write access to every part of system
 * root (su + superuser.apk) out of the box
 * new services like: samba, sshd, vpnc, openvpn, dvbt, nfs4
 * [http://forum.xda-developers.com/showthread.php?t=940470 3G/usb tether support]
 * Possibility to remove some google/Archos apps
 * Swap memory in RAM (CompCache) or on disk by default or when you need it
 * No 300MB limit for apps (and no faulty app2sd required)
 * You can have SD card Class 8/10 - that can be much faster than internal flash (check [http://forum.xda-developers.com/showthread.php?t=934087 this thread])
 * Many new new kernel modules (usbserial, ntfs, [http://forum.xda-developers.com/showthread.php?t=940470 3G modems], nfs4, cifs, hfs, iptables etc.)
 * DVB-T support for selected tuners
 * updated modules, firmware (like WiFi)
 * User friendly UrukConfig application
 * ... and much, much more - to much to mention all here - please read [http://forum.xda-developers.com/showpost.php?p=10239762&postcount=2 changelog]


== Warning ==
 * UrukDroid is known to work on A70S and H, A101 (8/16GB) and A43
 * Be aware that this modification requires SDE and probably some Linux knowledge.
 * By doing described below steps you probably can't brick your Archos - but do it on your own risk.
 * Root access on your devices makes it less secure form malicious software (use more head - less fingers ;) )


== Known problems: ==
 * EasyInstall on A70H does not work (to be fixed in new release)
 * People reporting some system freezes - during investigation. No any special condition required to hang.


== Before you start: ==
 * Read about SDE on forum, read SDE warning on Archos page before install
 * All operations described here, are done on Linux or Android and should be done from [U]root[/U] user (you can switch to that user in terminal by typing "su" or "sudo su" command)
 * If you don't have Linux on your PC - you can find any recent [URL="http://www.sysresccd.org/Download"]Rescue CD[/URL], Live CD or Virtual disk (VirtualBox or VMware) - distributions does not matter. If you don't know what to choose - get Rescue CD from above link.
 * This method REQUIRES 2GB+[URL="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SDHC#SDHC"]SDHC (SD)[/URL] by default, or resizing internal storage.


Since UrukDroid 0.6 there is new automated install method. It put's some restriction on flexibility of installation - but it should satisfy most of user, for more experienced ones - you can do it in old way.

== Step one ==
Assuming you have already installed [http://www.archos.com/support/support_tech/updates.html?country=us&lang=en SDE from Archos]:

Download and extract installation files from archive *UrukDroid_0.7-EasyInstall.rar*. Inside you should find three files: *initramfs.cpio.gz*, *zImage* and *UrukDroid-install.tgz*

Flash initramfs.cpio.gz and zImage from SDE boot menu:
 * power on Archos70, hold up/+ volume key until you see "_Archos AXXXX - Boot Menu_",
 * choose "Recovery System"->"Developer Edition Menu"->"Flash Kernel and Initramfs",
 * connect Archos to PC and copy zImage and initramfs.cpio.gz
 * press power button shortly, you should see Archos flashing new kernel
 * if flashed properly, press power button shortly to reboot...

Boot to SDE:
 * power on Archos, hold up/+ volume key until you see "_Archos AXXXX - Boot Menu_",
 * choose "Developer edition"


You should see "UrukDroid 07 Installation framework". Please choose simple install method. When asked to, connect Archos to PC once again and copy UrukDroid-install.tgz, disconnect Archos from PC *_properly_* (umount, safely remove device etc.) and press power button shortly.

Later, you will be also able to choose whether you want to copy /data partition. It's recommended not to - but you have this option.
For advanced install method - look below.

After reboot you should see UrukDroid 0.7 boot up screen (if it happens to boot to stock OS, reboot once again and go to "Boot menu", choose "Developer edition"). With messages on bottom. It should be:
 * "UrukDroid 0.7 Boot: Mounting rootfs...."
 * "UrukDroid 0.7 Boot: Mounting /data...."
 * "UrukDroid 0.7 Boot: System installation in progress, please wait..." `(this step may take several minutes)`
 * "UrukDroid 0.7 Boot: Copying /data content, please wait...." `(only if you choose to copy data, this step may take several minutes)`
 * "UrukDroid 0.7 Boot: Switching to rootfs...."
 * "UrukDroid 0.7 Rootfs: Postinstallation in progress. Please wait..." (this step takes 1-2 minutes)
 * "Black screen" ;) - it's a few minutes window when we can't show logo and there is no interface yet - please be patient...

If first run of "Archos configuration wizard" creates "Force close" errors, please reboot device (hold power button shortly for more than 1 second, this will bring "Power menu" and press power button long until "Reboot" message will appear).

[SIZE=4][COLOR=Sienna][U][B] Congratulations! [/B][/U][/COLOR][/SIZE]

== Step two: optional ==

If you want *GoogleMarket* (and required component to make it work) you can install UrukDroid package - UrukDroid-GoogleMarket_1.0.tbz2. (files inside this packaged are base on kenyu73 work).
[COLOR="DarkRed"]If you copied your old /data, you cannot have installed any other version of Market. If you apply this update, on previously installed market/vending etc. - it won't work.[/COLOR] This packaged is tested with fresh install of Uruk - where it works.
Download archive and put it in UrukUpdate directory located on /data partition
(so path is /data/UrukUpdate/). You should do it directly from internet browser on Archos Tablet, file manager like Astro or terminal - you shouldn't do it over USB.
Installation process will start automatically and silently, file will disappear from that folder after it's done. To run Market, restart is required when you'll be ready.

== Advanced EasyInstall ==
Since UrukDroid 0.7 you are able to choose, during install process, method called "Advanced". This option will give you possibility to choose partition sizes (from defined list of choices) when installing to SDCard or formatting Internal storage.
You are also able to choose Internal method installation with "resize" option. This method will try to reduce size of your current internal storage (visible on stock OS under /mnt/storage) and create additional filesystems. You cannot choose here filesystem sizes (it will use default/simple one 512MB for rootfs and 1GB for datafs) and YOU MUST assure enough free space on shrink filesystem. So [COLOR="Red"]MAKE SURE[/COLOR] your /mnt/storage has [COLOR="Red"]AT LEAST 1.7GB free space[/COLOR] - preferably more - otherwise this method will fail. This condition is not checked during install process.

== Files (UrukDroid-0.7): ==
From Megaupload.com
 *[http://www.megaupload.com/?d=7BM9XQWG UrukDroid_0.7-Install.rar] (md5sum: 785fd119d3079d4369e60208cb260c30)
 *[http://www.megaupload.com/?d=YMTZE44V UrukDroid-GoogleMarket_1.0.tbz2] (md5sum: f5427bdefa633d52210cd4ace47ba128)
Upgrade package (from 0.6+ to 0.7) - please read third post of this thread for details
 * [http://www.megaupload.com/?d=F5RYJNI0 UrukDroid-0.7-upgrade.tbz2] (md5sum: 82ced9d18e74902b55157844a7b72f89)
*Additional files:*
 * [http://www.megaupload.com/?d=66PNG9H0 UrukDroid-0.7-kernel.tbz2]
 * [http://www.megaupload.com/?d=7Y8V0AO3 UrukDroid-0.7-kernelOC.tbz2] - please [http://forum.xda-developers.com/showpost.php?p=11634087&postcount=572 read disclaimer] - this kernel is not supported in any way, and it's probably buggy - don't use it! ... unless you know what are you doing...

== Credits ==

 * 3G support by [http://forum.xda-developers.com/member.php?u=840086 Nenad]
 * UrukConfig application is developed by [http://forum.xda-developers.com/member.php?u=874424 solune]
 * UrukBackup scripts are developed by [http://forum.xda-developers.com/member.php?u=3342207 cheefy]
 * 0.6+ logo by [http://forum.xda-developers.com/member.php?u=1207253 zizoom]
 * 0.5 logo by [http://www.openclipart.org OCAL]
 * UrukDroid - mainly by Sauron ;)

Special thanks also go for supporters: [B]Andrew, Scott, Serguei, Jean Luc, Chirayu, Scott, Tom, Sarju, Przemek, Jason, Stephen, Carl, Kevin, Richard, Dennis, Donald, Stijn and Frédéric[/B]